# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2016-11-23

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lC-G0j2iDeg>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#35](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/35)
* **Minutes Google Doc**:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dUPFNyK8Yn1yWRAcXPY-mWM2KMWvOOB8Z5BH2s7RpJs>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/18rnF8IfO10aQ0gRRasH3zSuv397-lm_x1fX1FSGcV7E>


## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Ben Noordhuis @bnoordhuis (CTC)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)


## Standup

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
  * Reviewed issues and PRs.
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
  * Buffer issues.
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * Reviewed issues and PRs.
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * Been working on evaluating whether https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9440
    has anything we need to worry about
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * v7.2.0 Release yesterday
  * Misc minor stuff
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
  * HTTP/2 impl
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
  * help with Node-ChakraCore nightlies
  * test libraries for V8 Inspector including
    [node-inspect](https://github.com/buggerjs/node-inspect) and
    [chrome-remote-interface](https://github.com/cyrus-and/chrome-remote-interface)
  * review V8 TracingController PR and work on JS API with @jasongin
  * Prep for Node Interactive
  * issue review
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * added smtp server so we can get emails on build failure
  * starting to rough in benchmarking job for octane
  * ongoing work on stable ABI PoC
  * moderated benchmarking WG meeting
  * preparing for benchmarking WG presentation at Node Interactive
  * misc reviews/comments/lands
  * reading issues to keep up to date
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Reviewed PRs, commented on issues
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (CTC)
  * general review
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * Onboarded @italoacasas
  * Fixing flaky tests (test-inspector flakiness fix should land today)
  * PR and issue review
  * Preparing for Code & Learn


---

## Agenda

### nodejs/node

* Revert "buffer: runtime deprecation of calling Buffer without new"
  [#9529](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9529)


---

## Previous Meeting Review

* A new New CTC Meeting Schedule Proposal 
  [#29](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/29)
* Documentation WG Status [#32](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/32)
* Revert "buffer: runtime deprecation of calling Buffer without new"
  [#9529](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9529)
  * Moved to private discussion.
* tls: fix leak of WriteWrap+TLSWrap
  combination[#9626](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9626)
  * **Next steps**: Fix in next v7.x release than backport.
* src: don't call into VM from AsyncWrap
  destructor[#9467](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9467)
  * **Next steps**: @trevnorris implement steps described in previous minutes: start by removing
    weak handles from Node.


---

## Minutes

### Revert "buffer: runtime deprecation of calling Buffer without new" [#9529](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9529)

See also <https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9531> for broader discussion.

@addaleax: Most discussion this week has been about general way forward rather
than this specific PR.

Does anyone think the deprecation warning introduced in v7.x serves its purpose?

@ChALkeR: It probably doesn’t. From a security point-of-view it doesn’t. It had
another purpose - provide a way to inherit from Buffer as a class, and to that
it has been successful.

@mhdawson: Does anyone object to removing the deprecation warning?

@ChALkeR: If we decide to remove use of Buffer (with new and without), will we
in retrospect still consider removal of the deprecation warning a good move?

@mhdawson: We don’t have a good answer, and we may have to reintroduce the
deprecation in v8.x. But that shouldn’t change our action today.

@Fishrock123: If we revert this we shouldn’t necessarily deprecate anything in
v8.x.

@ChALkeR: Then reversion would be a good next step.

@mhdawson: “We put this in, there’s been some negative impact. So we’ll remove
it for now and reconsider the path forward.”

@addaleax: We should set aside the discussion about subclassability and
inheritance for now. It would require removing `Buffer` without new.

It’s become obvious that we’ll never be able to deprecate `Buffer` without new.
We may need a new API to support subclassability, it wouldn’t be too difficult.

@trott: Perhaps the CTC decision-making process is not effective in dealing with
this issue. Perhaps we should delegate to a small subset of CTC and non-CTC
people who have strong opinions and interest and can close on a recommendation.

@mhdawson: I don't think I've heard objections in our discussion today to
reverting the deprecation.

@Fishrock123: There’s going to be pain, so let’s not deprecate independently of
the rest of the discussion.

@Fishrock123: Latest stats are that v7.x is in more usage than v0.10. It seems
there was an initial rush of discussion. Most of the damage has already been
done and fixed. So reverting the deprecation isn’t that beneficial at this
point.

@chalker: I can collate new stats on how Buffer without new usage has changed in
the past few months. Before we revert we should check how much adoption the
deprecation led to.

@trott: Anyone from the “Yes revert” side want to speak?

@addaleax: Whenever I run a Node CLI I get that message, and I’ve gotten used to
the deprecation and started ignoring it.

@mhdawson: Are the deprecation warnings presented to the people they’re intended
for? They’re mainly for module developers.

@trott: Downstream users see them and can report them. Some modules are not that
actively maintained.

@trott: If we’re not deprecating this for security reasons we don’t have enough
justification for the user pain.

@ChALkeR: It should print a better reason describing the security issue and
providing a link to more info.

@mhdawson: Would this mean we’d never add deprecation messages, except for
security? Any deprecation message could lead to the same complaints.

@trott: Not all messages are equal, Buffer comes up frequently.

@mhdawson: This one is needed for end users to be aware of a security issue.
Generally these warnings are mainly for developers.

@addaleax: We’re unintentionally pushing people toward using `new Buffer` rather
than the new APIs (`Buffer.alloc`).

@Fishrock123: We should nudge people towards new and better APIs even if it
causes them some pain. Is there any better way with the scale of the npm
ecosystem?

@mhdawson: New APIs don’t interfere with existing users; changing old APIs isn’t
the same.

@evanlucas: It’s our responsibility to work with the ecosystem to introduce
these important changes. But not by pushing the pain to users.

@jasnell: We should accept more pain in core to help users rather than deferring
some pain to end users.

If we want a new version of Buffer based on ES6 classes etc. we perhaps should
start fresh, e.g. “Buffer2”, rather than breaking existing API.

@Fishrock123: We’ll still have complaints about a new API.

@jasnell: True, but they’re different complaints.

@joshgav: Should we perhaps put deprecation warnings behind a flag by default?

@jasnell has a PR which would allow this. Feedback is that users would not
actually turn on the flag.

@joshgav: Only need to turn it on every once in a while (@jasnell: e.g. in CI).

@Fishrock123: If we don’t do the revert by next week than we should just drop
it.

@ChALkeR to get stats. If usage has gone down, don’t revert as it’s been
effective. If not, might as well revert.

@evanlucas: Stats don’t include private packages...

@Fishrock123: But bigger concern is public modules which people depend on
downstream.

@ChALkeR: usage counts of public and private packages are quite different. Most
users use public packages.

@evanlucas: I think there are a lot of users using private packages.

@ChALkeR: Yes, but these packages are not highly depended upon downstream.

@evanlucas: If you have a (private) package used in many of your services which
uses Buffer, it’s a pain.

@mhdawson: Should we schedule a vote on “reverting the deprecation for Buffer
without new”? Would be independent of future plans to e.g. hard-deprecate in
v8.x.

@addaleax: Schedule prior to next v7.x release.

@Fishrock123: That will probably be next week, pending Node Interactive
activities.

* **Next Steps:** @evanlucas called for a vote and will set up an issue in the CTC repo.
**[CTC#36](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/36)**

---

## Q/A on public channels

### Q: What do you think about Yarn?

@Fishrock123: Competition is good.

@jasnell: Lots of promise, perf is phenomenal, will take a bit of time to
mature.

@mhdawson: It's good to have options, it probably still needs some time to
mature.

@Fishrock123: Compatibility is impressive.

### Note from YouTube: Private repos in big companies cannot easily change and need to be considered.

---


## Upcoming Meetings

* CTC: 2016-Nov-30, 2000 UTC (2pm in Austin)
* TSC: Informal face-to-face meeting at Node.js Interactive instead of usual
  online meeting. Next formal meeting on Thursday Dec-15.
* Diagnostics WG: As part of Collab Summit
* Other groups may also meet as part of Collab Summit.

