# Node.js Foundation CTC Meeting 2016-12-14

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eY1pZG228NU>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#46](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/46)
* **Minutes Google Doc**:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wwg3FhoiBTVM_Al8zdgHdr8-3njYC9oaYv_UMZ_HZ9A>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s1yJ1lhPuRhis12l6h21wvoPCuorgciFrPKEKG4olvE>_


## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* Fedor Indutny @indutny (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Mikeal Rogers @mikeal (observer/Node.js Foundation)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (observer)
* Myles Borins @TheAlphaNerd (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)


## Standup

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
  * Issue & PR review
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * cherry-picking to v7
  * working on making crypto.randomBytes() accept a buffer
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * nodejs-github-bot stuff
  * misc issues & PRs
* Fedor Indutny @indutny (CTC)
  * llnode stuff
  * reviewing PRs/Issues
  * experiments with uv_link_t
  * thinking about StreamBase and what to do about it
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
  * helping finalize trace_event PR (#9304)
  * catch up on node-inspect and debugger issues this week
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * working on process to allow WG’s more access to build jobs
  * misc benchmarking WG work
  * continued work on abi stable module api, landed eps
  * misc review/comment/lands
* Mikeal Rogers @mikeal (observer/Node.js Foundation)
  * following up on actions from last Board meeting
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Worked on upcoming perf PRs
  * Commented on issues, reviewed PRs
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
  * Have been too busy with work stuff. Not a lot apart from a few issues &
    comments.
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
  * nodejs.org downtime postmortem with DO
  * board/foundation stuff
* Michaël Zasso @targos (observer)
  * A few PR / issue reviews
* Myles Borins @TheAlphaNerd (CTC)
  * continued work on citgm
  * released v6 and v4
  * backporting
  * general issue / PR review
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
  * Rebasing AsyncHooks onto latest master
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * test fixes and refactors
  * PR / issue review


## Agenda

### nodejs/node

* [WIP] Restore copyright attribution [#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
* deps: upgrade npm to 4.0.2 [#9848](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9848)
* Trace event support for Node.js [#9304](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9304)

### nodejs/TSC

* Updating the Copyright [#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)

---

## Previous Meeting Review

### nodejs/node

* deps: upgrade npm to 4.0.2 [#9848](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9848)

  * Take back to GitHub for more discussion.

### nodejs/node-eps

* Initial version of eps for ABI-Stable-Module-API [#20](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/20)

  * No objections from those present. Michael will leave open for a few more
    days and then land if no further objections.

### nodejs/CTC

* Moving `node-inspect` into core [#40](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/40)

  * @jkrems to open PR to put in /deps in core.
  * @joshgav to open issue in nodejs/tsc to bring into Foundation.
  * Deprecate old debugger.

---

## Minutes

### Restore copyright attribution [#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)

See also: Updating the Copyright [#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)

@mikeal: You’re not allowed to modify attribution or licensing info in source
files without the original authors’ permission, according to lawyers. And even
to make modifications, we need to restore the original info first.

@jasnell: Entire original header, or just a reference to license and copyright
info? Would prefer just a reference.

@mikeal: Legal folks say we must restore to what it was first (which was full
header), then can discuss.

@jasnell: PR will only effect files which have existed throughout, about 1000
files. Is that all we need to do?

@mhdawson: Can we update all files and move on?

@mikeal: Can’t modify attribution in files added later either. Once this PR
lands we can move on to other options.

@Fishrock123: How did we handle `src/node.js`, which is now broken up and in
different locations?

@jasnell: Some other examples, and code has been modified since too.

@mikeal: Most important thing is to revert to the extent possible.

@jasnell: For files which have significantly changed, we could restore original
attribution and then append additional attributions.

@trott: Practical discussion should be here, other concerns should be with TSC.

@mikeal: We shouldn’t modify current attributions, but insert this below current
headers.

**Next steps:**

* Continue discussion in GitHub.

---

### deps: upgrade npm to 4.0.2 [#9848](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9848)

Question remained open last week if to land 4.x in master, or wait for 5.x.

@addaleax: No definitive conclusion, perhaps we should ask npm?

@thealphanerd: Would like to land in master for our use, question is should we
cut it into a release in 7.x. Need more justification to include in release.

@Fishrock123: Is anything breaking? Is this considered part of our API?

@rvagg: Do we understand the nature of breakage from 3->4?

@addaleax: List of breaking changes are in PR. Most aren’t “breaking breaking
changes”. npad has been removed, not sure what that is.

@evanlucas: Not supporting partial shrinkwraps could be a problem.

@thealphanerd: `prepublish` has been deprecated.

@rvagg: Outstanding question is whether this is significant enough to consider a
breaking change in Node.

@Fishrock123: npm indicated that very, very few people would encounter issues
with changes.

@rvagg: Schedule a vote for next week.

@Fishrock123: Land in master now to encourage experimentation, and see if
modules are broken. If no concerns, that’s a good justification for landing in
release.

@thealphanerd: Let’s find out about plans for npm 5. If we plan to jump to 5,
might need to include 4 in Node 7 so people see deprecation warnings.

@rvagg: Will we get needed feedback from landing in master?

@Fishrock123: Could coordinate with npm.

**Next steps:**

* Prepare for a vote next week.

---

### Trace event support for Node.js [#9304](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9304)

@joshgav: @mhdawson raised that this is coupled with V8. Should we address and
abstract this before the PR lands?

See https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9304#issuecomment-265822544.

Options:

1. Abstract this functionality individually.
2. Abstract all of `v8::Platform` and ensure this is encapsulated there. If so,
   hold up this PR or not?
3. Not worry about this for now and land as is.

@mhdawson: In trace, V8 needs pointer to its own data, should be possible to
abstract that.

@ofrobots: Holding up PR is making it harder to collaborate, would be good to
land and then address this and other issues.

@ofrobots: Only platform available currently is V8. If we want to ensure future
compatibility for other VMs, whose responsibility is it to handle that?

@mhdawson: If it’s about other VMs, I agree. But we should enable other trace
engines.

@ofrobots: Shouldn’t hold up PR for this abstraction.

@mhdawson: My preference would be for it to land and then address this, but will
@matthewloring or someone else address this?

@ofrobots: Doesn’t need to be Matt, could be any collaborator.

@rvagg: Okay to land in master and consider experimental.

@joshgav: "Experimental" message is now there.

**Next steps:**

* Land as experimental in master, and plan to make an abstraction in the future.

---

## Q/A on public channels

npm@4 `prepublish` is not just a doc change. It prints a deprecation warning.

That’s a case for including this in a 7.x release.

---

## Upcoming Meetings

Node.js Foundation Calendar:
<https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kap.co_i17i575te0aes6kaanfjr2e4hs%40group.calendar.google.com>

* CTC: 2016-Dec-21, 1600 UTC (8am Pacific)
* TSC: 2016-Dec-15, 2000 UTC (12pm Pacific)
* Benchmarking: https://github.com/nodejs/benchmarking/issues/84

