# Node.js Foundation CTC Meeting 2016-12-07

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y-1lrxFhrbY>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#43](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/43)
* **Minutes Google Doc**:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s1yJ1lhPuRhis12l6h21wvoPCuorgciFrPKEKG4olvE>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JcmFmof53I_GRTdwcnvd9JNS562PxUR4uIhR70AzjwU>


## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Jenn Turner @renrutnnej (observer/Node.js Foundation)
* Seth Thompson @s3ththompson (observer/Google)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (observer)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Bradley Farias @Bmeck (TC39 / observer)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)


## Standup

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
  * NINA, Code & Learn
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC):
  * Looked up some ecosystem security-related things, nothing much.
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * NINA last week. Reviewing issues and PRs
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
  * NINA and helping review/land some of the code and learn PRs
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC):
  * NINA, code&learn, Collab summit
  * Node 7.2.1 release
  * so much reviewing
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft):
  * Node Interactive and post-conference processing
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC):
  * NINA, code&learn, Collab summit
  * adding octane to benchmark runs/results
  * misc review/comments/lands
  * process for allowing WGs more control over build jobs
  * ongoing ABI stable module API work
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC):
  * Reviewed PRs, commented on issues
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC):
  * Node Interactive last week. Not much else.
* Jenn Turner @renrutnnej (observer/Node.js Foundation):
 * No update, just observing.
* Seth Thompson @s3ththompson (observer/Google):
  * At Node Interactive & vm neutrality summit
  * Circulating the discussions with the V8 team.
* Michaël Zasso @targos (observer):
  * Reviewed PRs and commented on issues.
* Bradley Farias @Bmeck (TC39 / observer):
  * Met w/ v8 and google about various module topics
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC):
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC):
  * Not present during the main part of the call, but…
  * Node.js Interactive last week
  * Landing a few PRs this week
  * Continued work on HTTP/2 implementation

---

## Agenda

### nodejs/node

* deps: upgrade npm to 4.0.2 [#9848](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9848)

### nodejs/node-eps

* Initial version of eps for ABI-Stable-Module-API
  [#20](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/20)

### nodejs/CTC

* Moving `node-inspect` into core [#40](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/40)

---

## Previous Meeting Review

### nodejs/node

* Revert "buffer: runtime deprecation of calling Buffer without new"
  [#9529](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9529)

---

## Minutes

### deps: upgrade npm to 4.0.2 [#9848](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9848)

@Fishrock123: New major, need to consider impact and when to land. May not need
to be in a Node.js major change.

@mhdawson: Is it breaking?

@Fishrock123: Yes, but really obscure edge cases AFAIK.

@addaleax: Yes, it’s technically breaking but I don’t think it will break
anyone’s code.

@evanlucas: Which version would we land on?

@addaleax: npm plans to get 5.x release out in first quarter of 2017, so we may
be able to skip 4.x entirely.

@Fishrock123: So question is whether to land in current 7.x branches.

@evanlucas: I think they may have backported changes to version 3, but if it’s
not being maintained we may have to go to version 4.

@Fishrock123: Bug fixing maintenance will continue, but no new features.

@mhdawson: Question is what’s the advantage of being part of a 7.x release, as
opposed to waiting for 8.x.

@Fishrock123 @addaleax: it should not be ported back to 6.x.

@evanlucas: Should we ship with both 3 and 4?

People can update npm themselves.

@addaleax: I’ve heard that npm doesn’t feel strongly about getting it in 7.x,
but would like everyone to move to 4.

@addaleax: I’m okay to land in 7.x. Very few cases where code will be broken.

**Next steps**:

* Take back to GitHub for more discussion.


---

### Moving `node-inspect` into core [#40](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/40)

See also
[nodejs/diagnostics#67](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/67).

@Trott: Old debugger protocol and CLI debugger is going away.

@ofrobots: Deprecating old CLI debugger, can build a new CLI debugger based on
new inspector protocol.

Issue for removal of V8 Debug API: <https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9789>

Questions are:

* Do we want a CLI Debugger in core itself?
* Do we want it separate from core, but shipped with default distribution, like
  npm?
* Don’t include in distribution, but make available via package managers.

Some feel it should be in core, but some concern because current implementation
hasn’t been maintained.

@Fishrock123: What would bundling look like? E.g. Would `node inspect script.js`
work, or would one use `node-inspect` installed globally?

@joshgav: Could bundle in /deps and include abstraction or #ifdef and build flag
guard where `node debug` is now.

@ofrobots: We have flexibility if we want to bundle it.

@joshgav: We believe it should be in the Foundation, but question is should it
be somehow part of core. If any are opposed to it even being in the Foundation
please speak up.

@addaleax: Informal Twitter survey said about 20% of respondents use it, and
also that many don’t even know about it.

@evanlucas: We should at least bundle it.

@Fishrock123: Since debugging story for Node is still maturing, removing it
wouldn’t be a great move.

[Discussion of SIGUSR1 activating inspector instead of debugger, but that seems
to be tangential to this.]

@Fishrock123: Any reasons for not bundling it?

@evanlucas: Some have brought up that it could get stale if *not* bundled. If
it’s bundled than we guarantee it works out of the box.

@mhdawson: Sometimes it’s not easy to get it, having some tools available by
default is important.

@mscdex: Is it the same API as the previous debugger?

@bmeck: Some minor differences due to Console API wrapper, but that’s it AFAIK.

@jkrems: If it’s bundled then it would be hard to remove it, perhaps don’t want
it in an LTS.

@trott: If it’s like npm then that’s less of a concern.

@bmeck: Some embedders may have concerns, need their opinion.

@evanlucas: Seek more community input?

@Fishrock123: Since we already have `node debug` and `node --inspect` I think we
don’t really have much of a choice.

@jkrems: Argue against aliasing `node debug` itself, because people may need it
to connect remotely to older versions.

@joshgav: Need to clarify how we support connecting from a newer version of Node
to an older version, perhaps factor out the old debugger into a userland module
for that use case.

@addaleax: We seem to have consensus that this should be in/bundled in core in
some form.

@Fishrock123: Need to also deprecate old debugger. @ofrobots said we might be
able to delay removal from V8, otherwise we might have to deprecate it now in
7.x.

@trott: Anything else needed for node-inspect?

@jkrems: Currently it’s optimized to be a replacement (i.e. in /lib), but if it
would be bundled like npm it could be refactored into multiple files etc.

That wouldn’t effect update-ability via npm.

@Fishrock123: Even if tightly coupling (in /lib) we could still break into
multiple files.

@jkrems: True, but it’s easier to test if it matches the current impl.

Seems to be rough consensus that if it would be bundled in core it would be like
npm (in /deps).

@trott: Goal is that it be available to users in some way.

From YouTube: If it’s not bundled in default distribution would not be allowed
to be installed in production systems.

@addaleax: Even if we bundle it as a separate thing like npm could be built into
the executable.

Next step is to create a PR on core pulling it into /deps and get review and
thoughts. @jkrems to work on this.

@joshgav to open request for adding to Foundation in TSC.

**Next steps**:

* @jkrems to open PR to put in /deps in core.
* @joshgav to open issue in nodejs/tsc to bring into Foundation.
* Deprecate old debugger.


---

### Initial version of EP for ABI-Stable-Module-API [#20](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/20)

@mhdawson: Looking for more thoughts and comments.

One option is to point from EP to actual repo with prototypes, which would
reflect current state of API.

@s3ththompson: V8 team is reviewing, will create issue in the ABI repo.

@jasnell: Anyone saying it’s just the wrong way to go?

@mhdawson: No. Someone suggested nbind, that might parallel the FFI work.

V8 team is also working on a FFI to address native modules issues. Plan is to
review NAPI and FFI in January-Feb-March time frame.

@s3ththompson: These could be complementary.

@mhdawson: So ask from CTC is can we land as is, or what is needed?

@Fishrock123: Any problem with landing as draft?

@mhdawson: I don’t think so, but wanted CTC approval since there was one
objection in thread.

**Next steps**:

* No objections from those present. Michael will leave open for a few more days
  and then land if no further objections.


---

## Q/A on public channels

None.


---

## Upcoming Meetings

* CTC: 2016-Dec-14, 2000 UTC (12pm Pacific)
* TSC: 2016-Dec-15, 2000 UTC (12pm Pacific)

