# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-06-07

## Links
 
* **Audio recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0gssTOvFsXg>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#140](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/140)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W690JFykwVpN_V8zCSs_6yDTnFqAgE3juRz5k28SMWg>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZoLJImAGLJxivjLyCqzl7qXpjTOts1cKLwiR2XnzOLA>_

## Present
 
* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC)
* Franziska Hinkelmann @fhinkel (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/TSC)
* Matteo Collina @mcollina (CTC)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Myles Borins @MylesBorins (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Jenn Turner @renrutnnej (observer/Node.js Foundation)
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
 
## Agenda
 
* announcements
* previous meeting review
* issue review
  * doc: note that EoL platforms are not supported [node#12672](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/12672)
 
## Announcements
 
* Congrats on 8.0.0 release!
* LTS team working on a proposed charter for CTC review.
 
## Previous Meeting Review
 
* http: overridable keep-alive behavior of `Agent` [node#13005](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/13005)  _added to the agenda by @indutny_
  * The PR was deemed uncontentious. Labeled ctc-review.
* Invert dependency between core and readable-stream [node-eps#49](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/49) _added to the agenda by @mcollina_
  * Deferred until next meeting.
 
## Minutes
 
### doc: note that EoL platforms are not supported [#12672](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/12672)
 
@mhdawson: suggestion to add to support policy that platforms are no longer supported once they reach end-of-life, even if Node.js hasn't changed versions.
 
Question is what does support mean to begin with - is it just "best effort"? And what does it mean that it changes if the platform isn't supported?
 
@mylesborins: A good example is Node 6 and Ubuntu 12.04. That version of Ubuntu isn't supported by Canonical, should we continue to support Node 6 on it?
 
@mhdawson: Some of the discussion in the issue is that if we tell people from the beginning of the semver-major that support for unsupported platforms will cease even within semver-major cycle, that would be okay.
 
@mhdawson: Recommended this text: "Community does not build and test against EOL distributions..."
 
@trott: Agree with @ljharb but defer to LTS/Build working groups. Why? Because we supported the distribution at the beginning of the LTS. *Supported* means we'll try.
 
@rvagg: We've had increasing difficulty getting needed images from our cloud providers for some distributions which aren't supported, like CentOS 5.
 
@mhdawson: So question is how strongly to state the change when a distro goes EOL.
 
@mylesborins: Makes sense to orient around what we test. @trott: Agree.
 
@rvagg: We'd need to list the platforms we do test on. We don't test on Arch, RHEL (assume CentOS covers it).
 
@mhdawson: we don't list tested platforms and it indeed may not make it completely clear, but it would serve as an advisory.
 
@joshgav: support implies "we will fix it" at Microsoft and is different than "best effort". @mhdawson: open source by nature is "best effort", perhaps we shouldn't use the term "support"? @joshgav: that makes sense, but may worry enterprises using Node. It's tricky.
 
@trott: Recommend taking back to GitHub with these suggestions and finalizing there.
 
@rvagg: in practice we support libc and compiler (e.g. gcc) versions. As long as supported versions of those are on the target system it should work. So we may never run into problems here as long as we're supporting that rough environment.
 
@mylesborins: any objections to dropping EOL OS's from CI? @rvagg: Binaries for later versions are sometimes built on earlier versions, e.g. CentOS 5 for Node < 8.
 
@mhdawson: supported kernel levels don't change for a semver-major release.
 
@mylesborins: maybe we should deliberately choose kernel/libc/gcc versions before we go LTS.
 
@mhdawson: we did this for 8 for AIX.
 
@matteo: We should proactively determine this prior to going LTS. For example, if we know Ubuntu 12.04 will go out of support we can state that it will go away from Node too from the start of LTS.
 
@trott: back to GitHub? And cc in appropriate groups.

**Next steps**

* Back to GitHub.

---
 
### New CTC nominees
 
* Matteo Collina
* Joyee Cheung
 
Objections? None. Since we have 15 CTC members on call and no objections these both pass. :tada:
 
## Q&A
 
* Q: What do you think about adonis.js? A: No opinions amongst attendees.

## Resources

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar
 
> Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.

