# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-03-01

## Links

* **Audio recording** not available this week.
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#74](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/74)
* **Minutes Google Doc**:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xoSIVTwNoOfOf0NSajbZudD2HX4PvYQ5V9eVqfDu0qs>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wTet7GX4RSbSKTy-OJwmmT0SCPumx9g8VzsgIu6590Y>_

## Present

* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
* Ben Noordhuis @bnoordhuis (CTC)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (CTC)
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)

## Standup

* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
  * Finished initial implementation of ESM loader
    * fully async / file ext / waiting on v8 bug fixes
* Ben Noordhuis @bnoordhuis (CTC)
  * Nothing of note.
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
  * Mostly issue and PR comments and reviews.
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * Issue and PR review. Opened a few PRs.
* Evan Lucas @evanlucas (CTC) _(not present)_
  * not much
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
  * cleaning up old issues
  * HTTP/2
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
  * blog post on diag items and --debug deprecation
  * added debugging guide to nodejs.org
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * Discussion with Gireesh on how to address pseudo tty issues on AIX
  * putting together presentation with Arunesh for vm summit this friday
  * ongoing work on ABI stable Module API - debugging larger latency in nanomsg
    perf runs
  * misc review/comment/land
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Optimization stuff, updating existing PRs, reviewing PRs and comments
* Rod Vagg @rvagg (CTC)
  * Tending to finicky ARM servers, cloudbleed drama
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
  * Nothing special
* Sakthipriyan Vairamani @thefourtheye (CTC)
  * PRs and reviews
  * documentation linter PR
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
  * Nothing of note
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * lots of little things, let’s get this meeting started


## Agenda

* tracking issue: async loader for module interop @trott
  [node#11233](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/11233)
* Updating the Copyright @jasnell
  [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)


## Previous Meeting Review

* (backport 7.x) lib: deprecate node --debug at runtime
  [node#11275](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/11275) (@joshgav)
  * Land `--debug` deprecation in 7.x.
  * Continue discussion re `node debug`.
* tracking issue: async loader for module interop
  [node#11233](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/11233) (@trott)
* fs: runtime deprecation for fs.SyncWriteStream
  [node#10467](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10467) (@jasnell)
  * No updates, remove label.
* Updating the Copyright [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)
  * No updates.

---

## Minutes

### tracking issue: async loader for module interop [node#11233](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/11233)

@bmeck: prototype in a private repo now, mostly working but waiting on some V8
bugs being fixed. Also needs to be fully ported to C++.

Attempting to implement the loader as an addon, i.e. as a component not tightly
coupled to core. Would then support older versions of Node. Unlikely to be
possible due to how we must use some of the hooks in V8. 

In private repo, Bradley will share when it’s less fragile. Estimate end of
month (March). If we share too early we may encourage people to use an
incomplete/non-compliant implementation.

@bmeck: Where to raise issues when current require/CJS system behaves
differently than documented? @rvagg: open issues in nodejs/node.

---

### Updating the Copyright [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)

Board approved first PR, which reverted to original headers. James will land by
Friday.

Second PR still pending Board/Legal Committee review and approval.

---

## Q&A, Other

_not broadcast_

Should we include ctc-review items in top post for CTC meetings? No, it’s
helpful to get a second message with just those items. Also it highlights them
separately from normal agenda items.

---

## Upcoming Meetings

Node.js Foundation Calendar:
<https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kap.co_i17i575te0aes6kaanfjr2e4hs%40group.calendar.google.com>

* CTC: March 8, 1600 UTC
* TSC: March 9, 2000 UTC
* VM Summit: Friday March 3, Redmond, WA, USA
  * Checkpoint on abi-stable-node for Node 8.
  * FFI work from V8.
