# Node Foundation CTC Meeting 2017-01-25

## Links

* **Audio Recording**: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8RIHCe3sFLU>
* **GitHub Issue**: [CTC#63](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/63)
* **Minutes Google Doc**:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/15CWMkzOEeXEGqqt6S7j9cTk787azjMX2sozAdYEXm0g>
* _Previous Minutes Google Doc_:
  <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Er0gdfsakYIY3Oi7ZlnKuyHrGl4_PNqGVf2BWAs6dUk>


## Present

* Anna Henningsen @addaleax (CTC)
* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
* Fedor Indutny @indutny (CTC)
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
* Jenn Turner @renrutnnej (observer/Node.js Foundation)


## Standup

* Bradley Meck @bmeck (observer/GoDaddy/TC39)
  * At TC39.
* Сковорода Никита Андреевич @ChALkeR (CTC)
  * Nothing worth mentioning, some private things.
* Colin Ihrig @cjihrig (CTC)
  * Issue and PR review. Opened a few PRs.
* Jeremiah Senkpiel @Fishrock123 (CTC)
  * Misc issues
  * ES Modules stuff (sync vs async loader)
* Fedor Indutny @indutny (CTC)
  * V8 Hash Seed cracker
  * llnode call with V8 team
  * iOS apps :)
  * Fixing bugs/reviewing PRs
* James M Snell @jasnell (CTC)
  * At TC-39 This week
  * Working on HTTP/2
  * Review/Landing PRs
* Josh Gavant @joshgav (observer/Microsoft)
  * Diagnostics WG meeting
  * moving Inspector and Trace Controller forward
  * transferred node-inspect into github.com/nodejs
  * Security WG review
* Michael Dawson @mhdawson (CTC)
  * Catching up from vacation last week
  * issues review/commenting/landing
  * fixup for coverage and benchmarking pages
  * looking at mod for smartos job so we can land updated v8 version
* Brian White @mscdex (CTC)
  * Landed optimization PRs
  * Reviewed PRs, commented on issues
* Ali Ijaz Sheikh @ofrobots (CTC)
  * Isolated a performance regression on AcmeAir with V8 5.7, reverted V8 change
  * Reconciling some API differences in V8 5.7
  * FFI with Matthew Loring
* Jenn Turner @renrutnnej (observer/Node.js Foundation)
  * observing
* Michaël Zasso @targos (CTC)
  * PR review/landing, comment on issues
  * Work on next V8 5.6 update
* Trevor Norris @trevnorris (CTC)
  * async\_hooks
* Rich Trott @Trott (CTC)
  * Onboarded @edsadr and @TimothyGu (welcome!)


## Agenda

* Updating the Copyright
  [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)
* [WIP] Restore copyright attribution
  [node#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
* [WIP] meta: update copyright statements
  [node#10599](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10599)
* lib: be robust when process global is clobbered
  [node#10135](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10135)
* process: Add code to warnings, assign codes to deprecations
  [node#10116](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10116)
* meta: deprecation policy
  [node#7964](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7964)
* assert: enforce type check in deepStrictEqual
  [node#10282](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10282)
* http: support environment-defined proxy
  [node#8381](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8381)
* deps: Add node-inspect
  [node#10187](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10187)
* Rewrite 002 - esm
  [node-eps#39](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/39)


## Previous Meeting Review

* Proposal to move guides to nodejs/nodejs.org
  [node#10792](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/10792)
* Growing the group of releasers
  [CTC#48](https://github.com/nodejs/CTC/issues/48)
* Bring 'node-inspect' (CLI Debugger) under the Foundation
  [TSC#190](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/190)

---

The following are on today’s agenda as well.

* Updating the Copyright
  [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)
* [WIP] meta: update copyright statements
  [node#10599](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10599)
* [WIP] Restore copyright attribution
  [node#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
* process: Add code to warnings, assign codes to deprecations
  [node#10116](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10116)
* meta: deprecation policy
  [node#7964](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7964)
* lib: be robust when process global is clobbered
  [node#10135](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10135)
* ES Modules
  [node-eps#39](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/39)

---

## Minutes

### Copyright

* Updating the Copyright [TSC#174](https://github.com/nodejs/TSC/issues/174)
* [WIP] Restore copyright attribution
  [node#10155](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10155)
* [WIP] meta: update copyright statements
  [node#10599](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10599)

Board meeting on 1/30 when this will be reviewed and discussed. Any changes or
comments should be submitted by Friday Jan-27 so they can be considered.

Couple editorial changes coming this week from @jasnell.

---

### lib: be robust when process global is clobbered
[node#10135](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10135)

Native modules always get the real `process` object so can change it. JS modules
get a wrapped `process` and cannot change it.

@bmeck requested changes to PR to make `process` writable again, but disallow
overriding existing members. @bnoordhuis agreed to make this change, then @bmeck
will approve.

---

### process: Add code to warnings, assign codes to deprecations
[node#10116](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10116)

@jasnell would like to land Friday Jan-27, final call for any objections.

Proposed format for codes is `/[A-Z]{3}[0-9]{4}/`, e.g. `DEP0061`.

---

### meta: deprecation policy
[node#7964](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/7964)

Request for review, @jasnell would like to finalize by next week, call for a
vote in next week’s CTC meeting if consensus not achieved in issue.

---

### assert: enforce type check in deepStrictEqual
[node#10282](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10282)

`assert` API is locked. Do we want to allow a semver-major change to a locked
API?

Although the change is objectively good, it changes expected behavior of tests
by being stricter and looser in certain cases.

@indutny: Many ecosystem modules rely on `assert` so wary of any change.

If possible, split out semver-major parts to a separate PR. (@addaleax commented
that this might not possible.)

Put through another CITGM run.

Check with @MylesBorins for considerations.

**Next steps**

* If possible, separate out semver-major parts to another PR.
* Test with CITGM again.
* Continue discussion in GH.

---

### http: support environment-defined proxy
[node#8381](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8381)

Should core support an HTTP proxy based on an environment variable, e.g.
`HTTP_PROXY`? Our previous position has been that this doesn’t belong in core,
should be left to userland.

@indutny: Against having this high-level functionality in core. It will make
user applications behave in an unexpected way. Should just provide some way for
userland modules to hook or patch, seems wouldn’t have significant perf impact.

Possible to override `http.globalAgent` so that all later requests use a proxy.
Check `hyperquest` as a canonical example.

@bmeck: npm implemented their own proxy logic to support this.

No others present have positions in favor or against.

**Next steps**

* @indutny to give feedback in GH, discussion continue there.

---

### deps: Add node-inspect
[node#10187](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/10187)

Adds node-inspect into the core tree under deps and integrates it as a
replacement for `node debug` (CLI Debugger). Might be about ready to land?

After some further review, okay to add this to master, but don’t cut into a
release yet. Would be good to be ready by 8.x.

---

### ES Modules [node-eps#39](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/39)

Call for a vote next week on an asynchronous or synchronous module loader in
Node.js. Among other things, async means `require(‘esm’)` returns a Promise,
sync means `require(‘esm’)` returns a module.

Discussion at TC39 meeting on disambiguation of source text, i.e. to determine
whether given source is a module or a script. Mixed feelings at TC39 so standard
not likely to change. Without that, will need double parsing or an alternative
file extension to disambiguate modules from scripts; current plan is to use
double parsing.

---

## Q/A on public channels

Hello from Tunisia, China and Germany :wave:

Q. Will there ever be code protection or obfuscation in Node.js?

A. Providing these reliably is really complicated and would require significant
changes to core which we’re unlikely to make.

Some options:

* Some existing third-party solutions for this.
* JXCore uses V8’s snapshots to achieve this.
* [jscrambler][] tries to do this through munging, minifying etc.
* WebAssembly.

[jscrambler]: https://github.com/jscrambler/javascript-jscrambler

---

Suggest adding list of `ctc-review` items to agenda each week for awareness,
general agreement.

---

## Upcoming Meetings

Node.js Foundation Calendar:
<https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kap.co_i17i575te0aes6kaanfjr2e4hs%40group.calendar.google.com>

* CTC: 2017-02-01, 2000 UTC (Wed 12pm Pacific)
* TSC: 2017-01-26, 2000 UTC (Thurs 12pm Pacific)

